---
title: Contract
---

# Your Contract

[2017–2018 Contract Fight &raquo;](/17/)

You can view the (expired) current collective bargaining agreement below, or
download a PDF copy.

<br>
<a class="button" href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1szOZOZBdWJRwsfwHkm0jP3t9QxVnt98RKV2w7C9IATU/preview" 
    target="_blank">
    2016–2017 Contract
</a>
<br> <br>


The union has also signed a [letter of understanding](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7UBOTu3UBdUSkwxQ1BoaUxrQ0E/view?usp=sharing)
which provides for workers at the Spencer Grill to be covered by the contract.

<br>


This **AGREEMENT** is effective as of October 1, 2016 by and between Grinnell
College (“College”) and Union of Grinnell Student Dining Workers (“Union”).

## ARTICLE I: Recognition

**1.1 Exclusive representative.**  The company recognizes the Union as the
exclusive representative of all employees of Grinnell College Dining Services
who regularly work in one or more of the following shifts: Afternoon
Service/Utility, Baker’s Helper, Beverages, Catering Setup, Cold Food
Re-stocker/Desserts & Bread, Cook’s Help, Custodian, Deli, Dessert, Dish Line,
Dish Line/Silverware Drop Attendant, Dish Machine Operator, Dishroom Floater,
Dishroom Floater/Glasses, Dishroom Helpers, Dishroom Restocker/Glasses,
Dishroom Utility, Grill Cook, Grill/Carver, HOH Sauce Prep, Honor G Grill Clean
Up Crew, Inventory Late, Pizza, Plat Du Jour, Pots and Pans, Receiver Early,
Salad & Soup, Sanitation/Spills, Sauté Cook, Silverware Sorter, Smoothie
Attendant, Stir Fry, Stir Fry Clean Up, Student Dishroom Leader, Student Leader
Marketplace, Student Leader Trainee Dishroom, Veg Prep, Vegan/Halal, or Waffle
Bar Attendant.  This Agreement shall not apply to supported employees.

**1.2 No strike.**  Under no circumstances will the union cause or permit its
members to cause nor will any member of the bargaining unit take part in any
strike, sit-down, stay-in or slowdown.

## ARTICLE II: Rights & Duties

**2.1 Mutual obligations.**  The College and Union mutually agree and
acknowledge that the employees covered by this Agreement are, first and
foremost, students. The advancement of the educational goals of the employees,
and the efficient operation of the College dining services are the mutual
obligations of the parties. The parties agree to further, to the fullest extent
possible, the safety of the employees, economy and efficiency of operation,
elimination of waste, realization of maximum quantity and quality of output,
cleanliness, protection of property and avoidance of interruptions to
production. The parties to this Agreement will cooperate fully to secure the
advancement and achievement of these purposes.

**2.2 Work rules.**  The Union will be given reasonable notice of work rule
changes and employee discharges, except that any academic or Title IX related
information shall not be shared with the Union. For purposes of this Section
2.2, “work rules” shall include rules regarding attendance, performance, and
operational procedures and policies. This provision shall not limit the
College’s ability to immediately implement or modify work rules related to
safety and health.

**2.3 College duties.**  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit
or impair the right of the College to exercise its own discretion on all of the
following matters, whatever may be the effect upon employment, when in its sole
discretion it may determine it advisable to do any or all of the following:

 - adopt work rules
 - to manage the College
 - terminate employment of employees under this Agreement, provided that the
   termination is for just cause
 - schedule work
 - to decide how to provide dining services to Grinnell College students
 - to determine schedules
 - to maintain order and efficiency in its plants and operations
 - to hire, layoff, assign, transfer and promote employees
 - to determine the qualifications of employees
 - to determine and redetermine job content

## ARTICLE III: Union Security

**3.1 Employee roster.**  The parties recognize that to fulfill its obligation
to represent employees under this Agreement, the Union should have access to
the names and contact information of employees covered by this Agreement. The
parties recognize and agree that Employee students may choose to keep their
contact information confidential.

**3.2 Employee orientation.** During new employee orientation, student employees
will be provided with a copy of this Agreement and a pamphlet provided by the
Union that includes a membership application form.  The Union will be allowed
to provide an informational slide to be included in new student employee
orientation; such slide must be provided one week in advance of orientation.  A
representative of the Union will also be will be allowed to set up an
informational table outside of new employee orientation.  Any employees who do
not go through an official orientation will still be provided with a copy of
this Agreement and the Union pamphlet, and the Union will be notified of the
employee’s hiring.

**3.3 Bulletin boards.**  The College will furnish a bulletin board contained
in a locked enclosed case for the use of the Union, displayed in a prominent
location. Bulletin board notices shall be restricted to:

 - Notices of union recreational and social affairs
 - Notices of union elections
 - Notices of union appointments and results of union elections
 - Notices of union meetings
 - Other notices concerning union affairs which are not political or
   controversial in nature

The Union will remove from the bulletin board, upon the written request of the
College, any material which in the College’s judgment is libelous, scurrilous
or detrimental to relationship between the College and its students. The Union
agrees it will not engage in general distribution, or posting by employees, of
pamphlets, advertising or political matters.

## ARTICLE IV: Wages

**4.1 Initial base wage.**  Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid a
base hourly wage of $9.25 per hour.

**4.2 Student Leader pay.**  Those employees designated and working as a
Student Leader by this College shall be paid an additional $0.75 per hour.

**4.3 Experience pay.**  The College and Union recognize and agree that it is
in the mutual interest of the parties to motivate employees to commit a
reasonable amount of time to dining services. Toward that end, student
employees will be paid an experience premium as follows:

A student employee who: (a) works 110 hours or more in a single semester; and
(b) works at least two shifts during the final week of that semester shall earn
an experience premium of 25 cents per hour for all hours worked during that
semester. In the second semester the employee meets the experience premium
requirements the employee shall earn a premium of 50 cents per hour for all
hours worked during that semester. In any semester thereafter that an employee
meets the experience premium requirements they shall be paid 75 cents per hour
for all hours worked during that semester. Semesters in which an experience
    bonus is earned need not be sequential. Experience bonuses shall be paid in
    the regular payroll following the end of the semester.

## ARTICLE V: Health & Safety

**5.1 Training.**  New employees will be trained on basic food safety practices
and procedures.

## ARTICLE VI: Breaks

**6.1 Rest Breaks.**  Employees shall receive a paid rest break of ten (10)
minutes during shifts that are longer than three hours.

**6.2 Meal Breaks.**  Employees who are unable to eat before their shift
because of unavoidable academic conflicts shall receive an unpaid meal break of
up to thirty (30) minutes during their shift.  Employees who receive a meal
break shall not also receive paid rest break.

## ARTICLE VII: Grievances

**7.1 General Policy.**  The College and the Union both aim to provide a
simple, efficient and cost-effective mechanism for resolving disagreements that
may arise under this Agreement.

**7.2 Grievance Procedure.**  Should any employee assert that the College has
violated a provision of this Agreement, such claim will be considered a
grievance to be resolved under this provision.

**Step One.**  The aggrieved employee and/or a union representative will raise
the concern with their supervisor within five (5) days after knowledge of the
issue giving rise to the concern.  The supervisor or a designee will respond
within five (5) days.

**Step Two.**  If the matter is not resolved at Step One the grievance will be
reduced to writing and presented to the director of Dining Services.  The
director or a designee will respond within five (5) days.  If the grievance is
not resolved at Step Two it will be submitted to binding arbitration.

**7.3 Arbitration.**  If the grievance is not resolved at Step Two the Union
may request arbitration on behalf of the aggrieved employee by submitting a
written request to the director of Dining Services within three (3) days of
receiving the Step Two response.

The College and the Union will annually create a list of 20 mutually acceptable
arbitration panel members drawn from faculty and elected executive student
government officers.   In the event of a grievance that is not resolved at Step
One or Two, five (5) names will be randomly drawn from this list and the
parties will alternately strike names from the list of five (5) to arrive at an
arbitration panel of three (3) arbitrators.  The panel of arbitrators shall
conduct a hearing and decide the grievance based upon the terms of this
Agreement and College policies and practices.  The arbitrator shall have no
power to amend, ignore or modify the terms of this Agreement.

## ARTICLE VIII: Term

**8.1 Term.**  This Agreement shall commence October 1, 2016 and shall continue
in full force and effect until midnight June 30, 2017 when it shall terminate.
If either party desires to renegotiate this Agreement, they shall give the
other party written notice to that effect not less than 90 nor more than 120
days prior to June 30, 2017. In any event, this Agreement shall not be extended
beyond June 30, 2017 except by written consent of the parties.
